He's not procrastinating over 98% of his
life. He's procrastinating over one
thing that he thinks is important.
Whatever it is that you're working on,
take a moment to see is like, is this
who you are or is this just one actually
kind of small percentage of your life?
>> Life is constantly showing you counter
evidence to your story. But when it
does, we very quickly go, well, there
needs to be another problem.
>> People have a story about how they're
messed up, but the story about how
they're messed up is the problem. And
this is so important if you're thinking
about your procrastination because
>> welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore living the life you
want with enjoyment and ease. I'm Brett
Kistler and this is Joe Hudson, coach to
some of the top Silicon Valley
executives. Today we're doing a coaching
breakdown. Joe, could you tell us a
little bit about what that means and
what we're going to be doing?
>> Sure. Hey Brett, good to be with you,
man.
>> Yeah, you too. Yeah, as far as the
coaching goes, it's um [snorts]
the breakdown is meant to help you
understand patterns of procrastination
in yourself. It is not meant to be a uh
way to teach people how to coach. Um the
reason that that's the case and and why
I'm not going to go into a lot of the
details of of how I coach is because um
coaching is best done from self
awareness, from self-realization, from
understanding yourself. It's not best
done through technique. And so the best
way to become a great coach um that
actually allows you to be fulfilled and
not hurt other people is to just deeply
understand yourself. And so even when we
are teaching coaches, we're mostly just
teaching people how to understand
themselves to be with themselves. So
please don't take this as some sort of
guide on how to coach. It's it's just
not a great way to go.
>> All right, let's get into it.
>> So my question for you
>> Yeah.
I procrastinate
a lot.
>> Uhhuh.
>> And
>> so just can we pause even this for a
second? There's something that's so
beautiful about
uh somebody who's just so clear on what
they want. Like a lot of times people
come into a coaching session with me in
the in our rapid coaching that you know
this is one of those free sessions that
we do
>> and um and they they like circle around
the well and he's just like bam I
procrastinate. And what I noticed is
when people do that, when people are
really clear on their question, when
they're really clear about what they
want, when they allow themselves to
actually want what they want, feel what
they want, the breakthrough can happen a
lot quicker, and with a lot more ease
than the folks who are not quite able
yet to to really allow themselves to
feel what they want. Which is why what
makes this video such a like it's just
bam bam bam video. So, a lot of movement
really quickly.
question is how do I get to the root of
that procrastination?
>> You procrastinate a lot on what? Because
there's there's [__] you don't
procrastinate on. For instance, you
procrastinate on this call, putting your
shirt on in the morning.
>> Yeah.
>> Like, so what is it that you
procrastinate?
>> Yeah. So, so, so this is something
that's always the case. Something the
human mind. So, there's two things about
the human mind that that really get you
with procrastination, but they get you
with a lot of the habits. The first one
is that you're constantly seeing the way
that you are doing the thing that you
don't want to do, but you're not seeing
the thing that you're not doing. And you
define yourself as the thing that is
bad, not the thing that you think is
good. So, he's saying he's a
procrastinator. He probably walks around
with that self-defin procrastinator,
but in reality, he's not procrastinating
over 98% of his life. He's
procrastinating over one thing that he
thinks is important. Probably most
likely, maybe two, maybe three, but most
of most of his life he's not
procrastinating. And this is just a
really important thing to think about
when whatever it is, if whatever it is
that you're working on, take a moment to
see is like, is this who you are or is
this just one actually kind of small
percentage of your life? And are you
defining yourself by that thing? Or are
you saying, "Oh, there's this little
thing that I'm doing that, oh, I would
like to change." It's such a difference.
The the the more of a mountain you make
out of a molehill, oftentimes the more
stuck it you feel and the more stuck it
seems.
>> Yeah. And also, the more that you
generalize something to your entire
life, like always nevering.
>> Yes.
>> I am always this, I never do this, then
you don't really have the surface area
for really fine tuned insight. You don't
get that.
>> Yeah. fine grained noticing where
exactly is this happening in my life.
>> Yeah.
>> So I can investigate that. And I love
that that's what that's where we're
starting here.
>> The the second thing that I'm doing is
I'm just taking apart the the and you're
going to see this in a minute. I'm just
taking apart a story. So typically what
happens is people have a story about how
they're messed up.
And but the story about how they're
messed up is the problem. The problem
isn't that they're messed up. The
problem is that that they've told that
story. And there's this a great saying
this is like the consciousness that got
you into the problem isn't going to be
the consciousness that gets you out of
the problem.
>> And and so it's a very similar situation
where you believe your story about
procrastination. It's the same story
you've been telling yourself freaking 20
times a day for decades potentially
and you believe it, but it's not giving
you any freedom. So what what on earth
would make you believe it instead of
question it? So, the first thing I'm
going to do here is just deconstruct the
story. I'm just not going to allow it to
stand. And so, let's let's see how it
goes.
>> On
>> um work stuff. So, I haveve I've got
I've got some clients
>> again. So, not all your work stuff do
you procrastinate on?
>> No. No.
>> So, what's the what's the stuff that you
procrastinate on in work?
Well, you could call it, let's just say
side hustle, side project, which is
something of my own.
>> Uhhuh. Okay.
>> It's looked like that for for a many
years.
>> So, it's the confluence of something
that takes care of yourself and money
where you procrastinate.
>> Boom.
>> Yes.
>> Taking care of somebody else and money,
do you procrastinate?
>> Could you say that again?
>> If you're taking care of somebody else
and earning money, do you procrastinate?
uh i.e. my my children um no I do what I
need to do for sure.
>> Okay. So something about the
procrastination pattern often is that
the procrastinator it's not all but
maybe like 80% of the time the
procrastinator
is procrastinating over stuff that's
about them not about other people. It's
stuff that they think it's personal.
It's like an art form or it's like doing
their poetry or starting their business.
It's something that is going to define
who they are and it's not going to be
about helping other people. And often
times, not all the time, but often times
somebody who has a lot of habituation on
procrastination,
they are um like more in the codependent
realm. They're more in the codependent
realm isn't quite, but they're they're
more likely to
want to make sure other people are happy
>> around them. And so that's like a
typical aspect of procrastination.
And often times when someone's really
working through their procrastination,
they're also working with the fact that
like it's okay to take care of yourself,
right? like it I I can be quote unquote
selfish.
>> I don't have to always been doing
something for somebody else.
>> Yeah. It sounds like obligation plays in
here, too. It's like the things that
he's obligated to do. Like he's got to
put his shirt on to go do the job that
he gets the money for to pay for his
kids food.
>> Yeah.
>> Like that is something that gets done.
But something that's like a vulnerable
creation for and from himself that steps
into new territory that he there's a
there might even be an aspect of being
seen here. The fear of being being seen
in something that is more deeply felt as
his.
>> Yeah. Often times that's the case. The
procrastination happens when it's
personal and when it's rejection.
Whatever it is that you're doing can get
rejected
>> and you can take that personally. Right?
So, one of the things that I'll do with
people, though, I'm not doing it with
this with with this gentleman, is to
really help them understand, I just did
this the other day in a coaching
session. Really help somebody understand
that it's not personal. Business isn't
personal. Your art form isn't personal.
Your mission isn't personal. Um there
was a woman who was starting her own
company and she was really successful
helping other people with their
companies but now when it comes to hers
and all she had to do was see that the
mission was beyond her that the mission
of her company was what she was serving
instead of somebody else and that could
deconstruct the procrastination
>> because it was no longer personal.
>> Yeah, that's awesome. Moves past the
identification as well.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> Great. Let's move on. The only place
you're procrastinating is where money
and taking care of yourself happens.
>> Yes.
>> Is that Is that [snorts] accurate? Okay.
Gotcha. Okay. So, what makes you not
want to take care of yourself?
>> Well, I mean, I take care of myself well
physically.
>> Yeah. What makes you want to not take
care of yourself financially?
I think I oscillate between fear of
success and failure.
>> Gotcha. Okay.
>> Hold on a second. So that's his story.
I'm not going to let that story
particularly stand because he's been
telling himself he's scared most likely
he's been scared of success and failure
for a long time. Like that's something
that he read somewhere or saw something
and maybe he's even worked through it a
couple times. I'm not going to I'm not
going to let that story stand because
again the story is the thing that's
keeping him trapped in the situation.
>> So definitely want to deconstruct it.
The other thing just to say about the
procrastination pattern particularly
around money is that often times
>> the money is a substitute for something
else. Meaning like it was um
uh it's been it used to be dad's love
that I could never get. Now it's money I
can never get, you know, or it used to
be um uh mom would always uh try to make
me feel better with money and buy me
stuff and so I'm buying my I'm like
spending money too quickly because I am
trying to make myself feel better and
avoid the thing underneath the way my
mom taught me. And so oftent times just
that money itself is is not the issue.
It's some emotional thing that happened
before money,
>> safety, value, worth.
>> Safety. Exactly. All that stuff. So,
>> so I'm not going down that money route
with him because he started by saying
procrastination. So, I'm following where
he wants to go and because he didn't say
I have a money issue, I have a
procrastination issue. And that's why
we're we're going to go down this route.
>> All right.
>> The fear of success is that I'll become
overwhelmed.
>> Yeah. and I'll be unable to have
>> How overwhelmed are you with the
procrastination?
>> Um,
considerably so.
>> Okay. So, it's not overwhelm you're
scared of. You're doing it to yourself
all the time.
>> How do you mean?
>> Well, yeah. So, stop stop right there.
This is a great moment. What I said was
entirely logical, entirely obvious. He
said, "I'm scared of success cuz it'll
overwhelm me. How much does your
procrastination overwhelm you? It
overwhelms me a lot. So, you're not
scared of overwhelm. You're doing it to
yourself all the time. But his whole
brain just went, "What the like?" He
couldn't make sense of it.
>> That's that's where I know I'm starting
to pierce the story because the story is
so embedded. And I'm like, when his
brain can't see that obvious thing right
away, he will in a second see it, but
when he can't see it right away, that's
my that's my knowing, oh, he's he's
broken through the story.
>> Like that the story is now no longer at
like this solid fortress of stuckness.
It is now starting to crack open.
>> Yeah. There's a great example of what we
call the 404,
>> which is, you know, a page not found on
the internet in your own consciousness.
It's I just stepped off the map.
>> Where are we? What is this? What's
happening? And that's
>> that's where the magic happens. That's
where patterns change and different
parts of ourselves emerge and get to be
expressed.
>> Yeah. Exactly. So you don't have any you
don't have any fear of overwhelm. That's
happening all the time. [laughter]
>> It does happen all the time. Yeah.
>> So what's the real fear?
that it that it'll um
that I won't be able to handle it
ultimately it'll fail. So I think that
the fear of success is ultimately the
fear of failure because it'll
go up and then well hopefully
>> so that means when you're doing this
stuff so when you're working for
somebody else none of that shit's going
through your head. When you're working
for yourself all that shit's going
through your head. So when you're doing
your work for yourself, give me a
project that you're procrastinating on.
>> I liked how right there the story
started to come back. It's about success
and failure.
>> Yes.
>> And then you did the same thing that was
earlier in the in the call, which is
just let's look at this with more more
of a fine tooth comb. Like where is this
happening? Where isn't it happening? And
anybody listening to this can look
through their own lives and say, okay,
what are the problems that I think I
have? Where exactly is it happening?
Where exactly is it not happening?
>> And
>> any any way you can take wonder, you
know, back to our, you know, the course
stuff that we teach in the connection
course, any place where you can get to
wonder
is a
so you're looking at the whole problem
in a fresh way where you're what what's
actually going down here? What are the
details? What like this is a story I
tell myself. How is it not true? Any way
you can do that kind of stuff is going
to be helpful.
>> Yeah. Um, I've got a I've got a I've got
a website. I'm I'm building out just a
niche website.
>> Okay, great. So, you're building out
this website and when you're doing it,
how does it feel different in your body?
So, hold on a second. There's this
little itty bitty clue that he just
dropped right there a little bit.
>> Yeah. It's this kind of niche website.
>> Yeah.
>> But we're gonna find out it's like
incredibly important to him, but he's
like it's a kind of niche website. So
there's like you that's like the the
dichotomy inside of him like he's
telling us what that dichotomy that that
that fight inside of him is. Here's this
important thing but it's not that
important but it's really important but
it's not that important.
Yeah. So that that's a that's a good
clue for what's about to come
>> than when you're building a website out
for your kid or for or doing that kind
of doing work for someone else.
>> Yeah. Well, if if it was for my kid, for
example, um there'd be a lightness about
it. There would just wouldn't be any
pressure.
>> Great. So, basically what you're saying
is you do not want you procrastinate on
things that feel like [__]
>> Yeah. Yeah. Because I put I put so much
importance and pressure on me, you know,
that being the thing that uh it's that
or nothing, you know.
>> Yeah. It defines you
>> like I'm gripping on
>> Yeah. Right. So, right. If every time
you played the guitar,
>> Yeah.
>> you were like, "I got to do this [__]
perfect." You would not play guitar.
>> Um, no. I mean, yeah. I mean,
>> if every time you doom scrolled
>> and you were like, I've got to [__]
like do my finger perfectly on that
scroll, you would stop doom scrolling.
>> Yeah. Right. Well, the the perfectionism
is is also at play here.
>> There's the perfectionism. It's also
interesting when you know the way that
he hedged and he was like, "Yeah, it's
sort of a niche website.
>> There's there's part of that aspect of
being seen in in how important this is
to him.
>> So there's there's multiple layers here
happening at once and you can see them
all."
>> Yeah. Yeah. And what and and there's a
hint about what he just said. He's like
perfectionism is also play. His brain is
now like looking for the new problem
that he has to fix which is
perfectionism.
So you're you're going to watch him
try to bring that same me underlying
mentality of oh what's this thing that I
have to fix to make good enough so that
finally I can have the thing that I want
what's the thing that I have to fix so
that I can finally be good enough to
have the thing that I want what's the
thing that I have to fix and you're
going to watch that happen which is
>> the underlying pattern of
procrastination
>> often not always but often. Yeah, which
is one thing that makes patterns in
general so persistent is that
>> life is constantly showing you counter
evidence to your stories.
>> But when it does,
>> we very quickly go, well, there needs to
be another problem. There needs to be
another story because it would be really
uncomfortable for me to go off the map
>> and stay off the map
>> until I've learned a new map. So I
anything I can do to get back on the
map.
>> Yeah, that's right.
Yeah. It also makes for a shitty
website. Great websites connect. They're
not perfect.
>> Yeah. It's it's it's the kind of
perfection
where I'm not doing everything, you
know, redoing it and redoing it. It's
the kind that stops me from starting.
It's that kind of perfectionism.
>> That's right. That's right. Because as
soon as you engage, it feels like [__]
>> Yeah.
And what happens is I I I run into this
um
I have a really low threshold for
frustration and it feels like if I'm
taking a step forward then something
>> Yeah.
>> will get in my way and that my tolerance
for that is
>> Yeah. You
>> almost rage.
>> Yeah. You're going to get in the way.
>> You're in the way.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> You're not like, "How do I have fun
building a website?" You're like, "How
do I make a perfect website?"
>> Yeah, I am in the way cuz it's all too
much.
>> Let's just say for a second you were
like, "Hey, I'm going to have fun
building a website for myself." The only
requirement, it doesn't matter how
[__] good it is. The only requirement
is that I have fun.
>> Yeah. There's there's a lot more energy
in that, you know, there's there's way
less friction. It's like, well,
>> and what's the qual what's the quality
of the website going to be compared to
if you try to do a perfect assuming you
got it done, which I'm not going to
assume is true, but you got it done
going. This has to be a perfect website.
>> There's something that's happening here
where you're like, you are keeping you
stuck. This is and and he's like, yes.
And if people are on their own and they
make this recognition often, I mean,
they're often doing this anyway. They're
like, oh, I'm keeping myself stuck. I'm
the problem. And it's it's happening in
this kind of blame, self-judgment, shame
way.
>> And that's not what's happening here.
And could you talk a little bit about
what the differences there and how how
that's showing up in this session?
>> Yeah. So the the big difference is that
as I'm saying it to him, I'm not calling
him bad.
So typically if you you if you can say,
"Hey, you you know, I'm keeping myself
stuck." And you can do that with an open
heart. There's freedom in it. and and
you can move through that pattern really
quickly. If you are I'm keeping myself
stuck and therefore I'm bad and
therefore I'm wrong and therefore I need
to be fixed and your heart is closed
towards yourself then that is a pattern
that will entrench. If there's shame
that's a pattern that's going to
entrench.
So I so to recognize the truth with an
open heart can actually move a pattern,
right? Or the other way to say it is to
recognize a pattern from view, which is
I'm going to be vulnerable. Yeah, I
[__] up. I'm going to be impartial,
right? Like I don't need this to change.
I'm going to be empathetic. I'm going to
be with myself emotionally. I'm not
going to try to push my emotions away.
And I'm going to be full of wonder.
Also known as an open heart. If you can
do that, then then your your pattern
changes relatively quickly. But if you
come to it with a closed heart, I'm
wrong, I'm shamed, I there's something
wrong with me, I've got to fix it, then
often times that pattern is going to be
very slow to change, if it changes at
all.
>> Yeah. Another way to see that is the
difference between bracing against it,
which is tightening, constricting, and
nothing's going to change in that
internal landscape.
>> Yeah.
>> Or embracing it. Okay. I'm I'm here. I'm
willing to see this and I'm willing to
be here for myself and really feel the
feelings that come up, which is what's
happening. You're you're pointing these
things out and he's seeing it and you
can see the emotion in his face. And
those who are listening to this are
probably feeling some emotion if they're
resonating with this pattern. And
>> pause right now for a moment. Just let
yourself feel that. What that what's
that like to feel that without shame,
without blaming yourself or making
yourself wrong?
And what's the qual what's the quality
of the website going to be compared to
if you try to do a perfect assuming you
got it done which I'm not going to
assume is true but you got it done going
this has to be a perfect website and you
got it done saying I'm going to have fun
doing this website
what would be the difference in quality
of the websites
>> and imagine that the one that's fun will
be of of higher quality
>> okay but let's assume that it isn't
let's assume that it's shitty quality
compared to the perfect one
>> and then you're like, you know what? I'm
going to have fun redoing my website,
improving my website.
What's happening there is that the
introduction that I'm making there is
that when people are scared, which is
what this is underneath, right? There's
a fear that I'm not going to be perfect.
There's a fear I'm going to get rejected
or I'm going to be accepted. There's a
there's a there's a fear going on.
oftentimes what happens is there's a the
the not oftentimes almost always the
brain will create a false end.
I will make a shitty website and it's
over. I will lose my job and it's over.
I will get divorced and it's over. And
so if you can see through that false
end, then there's some freedom. Then the
fear starts to like wobble a little bit.
And so all I'm doing here is also
showing that Yeah. Yeah. So, you make a
shitty website, you redo it, like what's
the problem?
And which gives him a certain amount of
freedom? And and you can see his face as
this is happening. He's heating up
physically. He's heating up. His face is
getting redder. It's like he's getting
like a rush of life into his system.
Okay. Actually, you'll you'll get the
website.
>> Yeah. It'll it'll it'll get done.
>> Yeah, it'll get done.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I'll go a lot I'll go a lot
further when it's fun.
>> That's right.
>> Whether and the only thing making it not
fun is that you somehow think it's
important.
>> Yeah, that's that's right. It's like
it's it's the it's the world saving me
off the streets kind of.
>> Great. Now I'm going to make you really
uncomfortable.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> Here we go.
>> Prove to all of us that it's important.
Your website
>> that it's important.
>> Yeah. It's so [__] important that
it's not fun and you don't do it. So,
prove to us why it's so [__]
important. Okay, pause. This is where
that niche thing is. I'm call I'm
calling back the niche thing.
>> Mhm.
>> Right. So, to some degree there's
there's some freedom in him owning it
like to actually say the thing and then
because until you can say it, you can't
see through it. Until you can own the
thing, you can't you know, every
epiphany is a rut is the beginning
formation of a rut. And so until he can
say yes, this is important, not say it's
niche, to own the importance, that's the
beginning of him being able to see that
this is just an iterative life cool
thing to do. It's like no more or less
important than
sketching on a napkin, right? That if
it's not personal, if it's not
self-defining,
then it and then it can actually become
fun. But he can't do that unless he
actually owns the importance first.
Which is fascinating because some of the
most important pieces of art or math
equations or discoveries were all found
by sketching on a napkin,
>> right? Exactly. [laughter]
Exactly.
Yeah. That moment of not thinking about
it in the shower or whatever. Yeah.
Yeah. Totally.
>> Because if I if I don't do it, then I
will be working for somebody else and
that
I don't want to do that anymore. and
I'll I'll my my income will be limited
and
I won't get to where I want to be and I
won't be able to give my kids the
lifestyle that I want them to have
and be the dad that I want to be.
I'll be stuck.
You are stuck. Okay, hold on a second.
There's this great moment and I and I
it's so beautiful. like all of his care,
all of like this. You can just see like
when he's doing a website, he's like,
"This defines how good of a dad I am.
This defines [laughter]
this defines like how right how how good
of a person I am. This like
it's that that's what the and this is
>> so important if you're thinking about
your procrastination cuz that's in there
on some level. If you're procrastinating
over something that you consider to be
important, you've made this thing about
like what could be a fun endeavor of
learning,
make a website that you can do a
thousand times and and get it take a
thousand times to get it right. You've
turned that into
I'm a shitty father if I don't do this
website right. [sighs]
[laughter]
>> Yeah. Put put that bluntly. That hits.
>> Yeah. So it and you also just see his
like how [__] beautiful of a man he
is. Like and that's the other thing.
It's like he's seen I am a
procrastinator. I'm seeing he is a
beautiful man who cares so [__]
deeply. And if he could see himself
through my eyes in that moment, there'd
be nothing to procrastinate over because
I'm already the thing that I want to
[__] be,
right? Like the the website isn't going
to make me. I'm already a sweetheart.
I'm already a good father. I already
care. I already [__] love my kids. I
already like am providing for them. I I
I like I don't have to do anything else
to [__] deserve love. Like it's
really hard not to love a man who just
looked and did that. You have to you got
to be cold as ice to not love that. But
he can't love it because he all he's
seen is a procrastinator.
I'm sure this has nothing to do with why
five minutes before we were recording, I
was standing on my desk trying to tape a
blanket to the window to change the
lighting. Nothing to do with it.
[laughter]
>> Cool. Let's see. Let's see where we go.
>> On we go.
>> I know.
>> Yeah.
Uh [clears throat]
for a long time.
>> Yeah.
It's so important that it makes you
stuck.
>> Yeah. I think that that you know beneath
that is the fear that I'll um
>> which would you rather just curious
which would you rather to work for
somebody else
or to constantly be under the yoke of a
perfectionist?
world
>> because that's your choice right now.
And I see which one you're making.
>> Yeah.
>> This points to the golden algorithm that
we've talked about before, which is in
his consciousness. He's got the shape of
I don't want to be oppressed. I don't
want to be working for someone else.
>> Yeah.
>> And that shape of his awareness of his
consciousness is applying to himself.
He's he has become his own his own
oppressor. He's become the perfectionist
boss.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And and and generally
probably I
70% chance or something is he had a
parent who was highly critical who was
constantly telling him he wasn't good
enough which is both why he wants to not
work for somebody and why he's treating
himself like this. So like if I was in a
deep long-term relation coaching
relationship with him, we would heal
that relationship the with the critical
parent.
>> And oftentimes people who are
procrastinators had deeply critical
parents.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And another way that can
show up is seeing your parents have
their relationship with work be a
certain way and being like I'm not going
to have that happen.
>> Yeah. Also, [laughter]
is that personal there? What Brett?
>> Little personal there.
>> Little personal. Yeah. And and they can
be the same thing, you know, parents
passing down the same expectation of
oppression and criticism
>> that they've recreated in their work
life and you see it in their work life
and you're like, I don't want anything
to do with that. I want to be my own
boss.
>> But until you get to the root of all of
this, the way that you're going to be
your own boss is exactly the way you've
been avoiding and trying to run from.
>> Exactly.
>> Yeah. Definitely a little personal. This
one's definitely hitting [laughter]
for me as well. Yeah.
>> Cool. Let's move on.
>> Yeah. Okay.
I see that.
>> You want to work for yourself, you got
to be a good boss.
>> Yeah.
I got to take the pressure off myself.
>> That That is a way to put pressure on
yourself.
That's that's the thing I was talking
about earlier. That is him
now needing to creating something else
that he needs to do to be good enough to
get the love.
>> Mhm.
>> Like that's the pattern that his parents
taught him. That's the thing they Okay,
now I have to deal with perfe Once I
deal with the perfectionism then I'll be
lovable. Yeah. And that like that's the
next one.
>> Another thing to be perfectionistic
about too.
>> Exactly.
>> I got to just take the pressure off
myself in just the right way.
>> Yeah. Exactly.
>> Yeah. I can't move forward if I'm
putting pressure on myself.
>> Yeah. Exactly.
>> Yeah. I've got to take the pressure off
myself.
>> Yeah. Yeah. That's pressure, isn't it?
>> That's more pressure.
>> Yeah.
So, how do I
>> Could you imagine how horrible I'd be at
what I'm doing right now if I needed to
get a result?
[snorts]
[laughter]
Mary.
>> Yeah.
>> Probably wouldn't be sat here still.
>> Yeah. I would I would I would hate my
job.
>> Yeah.
>> Right.
>> Would you know how bad this session
would be if you needed to be perfect?
>> Yeah. It'd be pretty awful.
>> Be pretty awful.
>> So, how do you just enjoy
like right now? How do you enjoy this
moment 10% more?
>> This moment right now.
>> Yeah, that looks like you did it.
>> I just appreciate that I'm here.
>> Yeah.
>> On a call with you and all these these
people.
>> Yeah, that's how you enjoy your work
more, too.
[clears throat]
>> [laughter]
>> All right.
>> That's it.
>> That's it. [laughter]
>> Okay.
>> So, what I want you to do is for So,
this the the the mo I mean, you see his
whole face turn red. You see the
laughter. You see like the the the
sematic recognition, it probably hasn't
hit his head yet, but the sematic
recognition is I don't have to do
anything.
>> Mhm. to get that enjoyment, to get that
love, to get that I just actually have
to be present in this moment. I have a
little appreciation like I have to
actually be with the moment
and his oh my. And that you can see the
laughter is like, oh like
at some point it'll hit his head that oh
some version of in a war with yourself
you always lose. All I have to do is
stop fighting and I can actually just
enjoy.
>> Yeah. What a subtle and important
difference to while you are in the
process of working, while you're doing
your art and your creation, coming from
the place of I am enjoying whatever I'm
doing right now, however it is, versus
once I get this little corner on the
pixels right, then I will enjoy myself.
Like the difference between running
across a pond with stones and running
across lily pads.
>> Yeah. [laughter]
Yeah. Beautiful.
>> That's it.
>> Okay.
>> So, what I want you to do is for the
next week, I want you to sit down in
front of your computer with the
intention to work and enjoy yourself.
And the most important thing is to enjoy
yourself. The second most important
thing is to work.
Fantastic. Thank you.
>> So, it's just, oh, if I'm not enjoying
myself, stop what I'm doing. Figure out
a way to do it in a way that I enjoy it.
>> Yeah.
>> Make your work something that is lovely
for you to do and you won't
procrastinate.
>> Yeah, I like that. Lovely for me to do.
>> Yeah.
>> And the way that you closed it there by
offering an experiment.
>> Yeah. This is this is not something that
he just learned from you and he's gonna
now have a voice in his head. That might
happen a little bit. Some some people
were like, "Oh, I imagine Joe says this
or Joe says that or Brett says
whatever."
>> But
>> he's now got something to try to play
with
>> that
can iterate on. It's a first step of a
manystep experiment that will integrate
into his life to the extent that he runs
with it.
>> Right. And that that's what I'd say for
anybody who's dealing with
procrastination is
investigate, deconstruct, see through
wonder is one of the steps.
Experimentation is the second step. How
do I do this in a way that's more
enjoyable is one experiment.
You know, how do I uh respond to the
voice in my head when it's critical is
another experiment.
How do I set up a sit how do I do it in
a way that's fun? Oh, is it more fun to
create the website with somebody and we
do it together over the, you know, over
the screen share or is it more fun to
like,
you know what, I if I were him and I
wanted to make sure this was fun, one of
the experiments that I might run is to
do it with my kid.
>> Like, I bet he'd have a lot of fun
putting that website together with his
child, no matter how old the child is.
So like you know but when you're in that
I'm bad I'm procrastinating you don't
there's no wonder which leads to no new
experiments.
>> Yeah. Which leads to stuckness.
>> Which which leads to stuckness.
>> Well this has been a lovely experiment.
I love doing these breakdowns.
>> Oh man that was a fun one. Really
appreciated that.
>> Yeah.
>> Thank you.
>> To date. This has been one of our
biggest videos on YouTube. So
>> yeah, I think I think this uh I think
people I hope people really enjoy this.
>> Yeah, I hope it gets watched. That would
be great. Yeah.
>> Awesome.
>> Awesome. Well, thank you Joe. Thank you
everybody for listening. Thank you to
our participant for being so vulnerable
and really showing up today. If you
enjoyed what you heard today, please
share it with a friend. We'd love for
you to rate us on all the podcast apps.
Give us five stars is my preference, but
whatever many stars you feel you got out
of this session. And uh and if you're
interested in experiments, we have a
page where like there's a huge amount of
experiments you can try or ways of
trying it and the tools. So there's we
have so we have so many resources that
are free for you
>> Yeah. And the best way to be able to
know all of the all the free resources
[music] is to sign up for the
newsletter. If you sign up for the
newsletter, you'll get all the free
resources coming at you as we create
them. So that's a incredibly like the
the most useful way to get involved for
you.
>> Beautiful. All right, take care
everybody. This episode is produced by
myself and Joe Hudson. Mi Kelly is our
production coordinator. Uh, till next